High in this video we're going to continue looking at decorator's and in particular we're going to look
at how to parameterize of decorator's we've seen already that Python has some built in decorator's that
can take parameters for example the wraps decorator takes in a parameter of the function that we're
decorating that allows us to copy some of the metadata over into the decorated function.
We also saw that the LRU cache the memoization built in decorator can also take some parameters for
example max size being the maximum size of the cache.
Now that should look quite different from the decorator's that we've been creating.
For example we've been creating this timed decorator's.
And you'll notice that there's a major difference between those two.
This is a function call.
You can see the parentheses LRU cache parentheses and then the parameter that's a function call.
Same thing with wraps wraps parameter parentheses.
And then the parameter that's again a function call.
This is very different from our decorator which doesn't take any functions which doesn't take any Presario
any parameters and doesn't have a call it doesn't have these parentheses it's not being called.
So time is a decorator but it's being used differently than these decorators over here.
So what's going on.
Well in order to do that let's go back to our time decorator's And let's just make a few tweaks to it.
So if you don't remember the time decorator you can go back a couple of videos back in one of the applications
we developed this time.
Decorator and you really should understand it quite well because we're going to use that throughout
this video and the next.
Basically what I've done is I've tweaked this so instead of calling the function once calculating the
elapsed time printing out the elapsed time and then returning the result of the function call I'm actually
going to call the function 10 times and then calculate an average.
So basically what I'm doing here I'm selling my total elapsed time to zero.
I then have a loop which I'm where I'm looping 10 times.
I set my start of real inside that loop.
So I set my start time I call the function and then to the total elapsed time I add the elapsed time
for this particular iteration of the loop.
Then once the loop is finished I calculate the average elapsed time being the total AFP's divided by
10 right.
And then we print the average elapsed time.
We return the result.
It actually we had 10 results but we just return the last one doesn't matter.
They should all have the same result.
In this case we use our Fibonacci for example and then we return the function.
OK.
So that's how decorator nothing different except that I've added in this thing where it repeats the
function call 10 times and then calculates the average elapsed time.
So now we can decorate my fund using either the decorator syntax at time as we've done before or and
this is important to understand that this is equivalent.
We can say my phone calls times of my funk.
So time does our decorator which takes in a single parameter.
Have fun.
In this case my funk one have my funk is OK.
So there's a problem though here the value of ten has been hardcoded and that's never a good idea to
have code values in our code.
What happens if I want to time a function by calling it five times or a hundred times.
Well I can't I'm kind of stuck with 10 right.
I'd have to go back in the code and change this to five.
But then what happens if in the same piece of code I want to time something with five calls five repetitions
and another function I want to time with maybe 100 repetitions.
All I can do.
Right.
So we have to put this as a parameter we have to pass this in as a parameter.
Where are we going to pass this in as a parameter.
Well a pretty obvious way here would be to pass it into the time decorator's.
So let's see how we might try something like that.
So this is the same decorator as before the same time function.
But you'll notice now that I've added the reps parameter to the time function and the RX parameter now
is reference so it's a free variable right.
This extra parameter is now free variables being referenced inside inner.
So we have a closure that contains wraps wraps this coming in from the parameter time.
And then we do the same thing as before except now we no longer have a hardcoded value of 10.
All right so now can we use this to decorate our function.
And the answer is yes we can do it this way we can say my phunk equals timed of my funk commet 10 right.
We're going to call the time function.
We're going to pass it the function my funk into AFN and then we'll go into reps.
That works just fine.
This is fine.
The problem is that this syntax will not work because at timed well what is it doing it's calling timed
turn false that's the first thing it's going to do.
Time 10 well timed expects two parameters not one.
Here we're only passing one in.
So this syntax will fail completely.
So that's not going to work.
So we have to try and change our approach here and see where how can we make this work so rethinking
the solution.
If we look at what this is at times and then we have we all function my funk what it means equivalently
is that my phone equals times of my funk.
Right.
So timed is a function that returns that in a closure that contains our original function.
When time is called it's called with this function my phunk it returns the in a function.
So in order for this to work as intended it means that timed 10 so calling timed with 10 that should
return the decorator not the inner function it should return the decorator so time 10 will need to return
our original timed decorator when called so now we would have this wave want to break it out.
We could say DEC equals time 10 time 10.
So time is a function.
It's not our current time function right.
It's a different function that takes in a single parameter 10 and it's going to return a decorator and
let's assign it to the label deck and then we can decorate my funk with this decorated deck just as
before.
You'll notice that we don't have the parentheses here.
So what's important to understand is that these this type of decorator time is not the decorator tined
is a function that takes in one or more parameters or zero depending how you write it.
But that can take in parameters but you have to call it in order to get a decorator back and then you'd
apply that decorator to my phunk that.
So let's see how we can do that.
Let's go ahead and create this outer function that takes in a single parameter called reps.
And I'm just going to take that timed decorator that we had Azeez and pasted right in here.
Nothing has changed.
This is the original decorator that we were doing just now.
Right.
Except that I took away wraps from the parameter list for time.
If time is going to be a decorator it can only take a single parameter.
The function being decorated.
That's it.
But you'll notice what's happening here is that reps is really the reps that's in the outer function
right.
This is a free variable that's bound to Rapson our right reps is not defined in there it's not assigned
a value in her.
It's not a sign of value in timed but it is being created in our pocket.
So now we have our time decorated as before it has its function when timed will be called.
It will return that in a function but now in addition we return timed.
So you'll notice that if we call our let's say 10.
What is it going to return.
It's a return a decorator.
And that decorator will know what Rx is because it's a free variable.
It's a Koser So calling outer n will return our original decorator with reps set to n right the closure.
So now we could decorate our function this way we could say my phunk equals Alt-A 10.
So we call out a forest with 10.
We get the time decorator back and then we apply that to my phunk decorated that way so that syntax
will work just fine.
Which means that this syntax will work just fine as well because that's doing exactly the same thing.
So you see what's happening here.
This outer function is not a decorator.
It is creating a decorator so the function is not itself a decorator it creates a decorator what it's
called.
And for that reason it's called a decorator factory because it's a factory function it creates a decorator.
So it's a decorator factory.
So to wrap things up we probably don't want our decorator to be cold out here.
Right.
We would probably want it to be called time.
Well that's very simple.
All we need to do is to change the name of that outer function to time.
And of course the inner function which is also called Time is going to have to change to something else
now.
So it doesn't clash.
So this is how I would make more sense to write.
But keep in mind that timed is not the decorator time as a decorator factory that when called in this
case parentheses 10 being called value 10 of a parabola 10 and that will then return the decorator that
then gets applied to my func.
So all we need to do is change the names of the outer and the time functions so we can do it this way.
Now our other function we're calling a timed the function that used to be called Time is not called
Deck decorator that whatever you want to call it.
And of course we return the in a function we return the decorator and we're done.
OK.
Now of course I also added in the wraps we can still use wraps that's perfectly fine right now decorator
function DECT can have wraps in it.
OK.
And now we can decorate it this way at times 10.
Def my phunk right.
So let's switch to some code and let's see this in action and I'll add a few more examples as well so
we can see what's going on with this idea of a factory right.
A factory function as opposed to having a direct arm decorator.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.